Neutropenia is the medical term used
when you have a low level of
white blood cells called neutrophils.
These infection fighting white blood cells
are an important part of the immune system.
Like other blood cells,
neutrophils are produced in the spongy tissue
inside of bones called marrow.
Neutrophils are present in your bloodstream
to help defend your body against infection
by attacking harmful organisms, like bacteria.
There are many causes of neutropenia.
One such cause is treatment with chemotherapy.
Patients living with cancer are frequently
treated with chemotherapy drugs,
which may reduce the production of blood cells
including white blood cells.
If you develop neutropenia
while receiving chemotherapy,
it can mean that your immune system is weakened.
This may increase your risk of infection,
or make it harder to fight an existing infection.
If you're a cancer patient receiving chemotherapy
it's important to watch for signs of an infection.
These include fever,
chills,
feeling generally unwell,
and redness or swelling in any area,
Especially around surgical wounds
and injection sites.
Sometimes these infections can be dangerous
or even life threatening.
If an infection is serious,
you may also need to be hospitalized
and your cancer treatment may need to be put on hold
while you are treated for your infection
and possible related side effects.
There are a number of ways you can reduce
your risk of infection.
Speak to your doctor or nurse
to understand what you can do.